---
title: "Energy Efficient Data Collection in Large-Scale Internet of Things via Computation Offloading"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/IOTJ2019
excerpt: ''
date: 2019-06-01
venue: 'IEEE Internet of Things Journal'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8488537'
citation: 'Guoui Li, Jingsha He, Sancheng Peng, Weija Jia, Cong Wang, Jianwei Niu, Shui Yu. Energy Efficient Data Collection in Large-scale Internet of Things via Computation Offloading. IEEE Internet of Things Journal. 2019, 6(3): 4176-4187.'
---

Internet of Things (IoT) can be used to promote many advanced applications by utilizing the sensed data collected from various settings. To reduce the energy consumption of IoT devices, and to extend the lifetime of network, the sensed data are usually compressed before their transmission through compressed sensing theory. By reconstructing the sensed data at the edge of network with more resourceful devices, such as laptops and servers, the intensive computation and energy consumption of the IoT nodes could be effectively offloaded. However, most of the existing data collection schemes are limited in their scalability, because the unified data reconstruction models of them are not suitable for large-scale surveillance scenarios. In our proposed scheme, the whole network is first partitioned into a number of data correlated clusters based on spatial correlation. Then, a data collection tree is built to collect the compressed data in a hybrid mode. Finally, the data reconstruction problem is modelled as a group sparse problem and solved through using an alternating direction method of multiplier-based algorithm. The performance of data communication and reconstruction of the proposed scheme is evaluated through experiments with real data set. The experimental results show that the proposed scheme can indeed lower the amount of data transmission, prolong the network life, and achieve a higher level of accuracy in data collection compared to existing data collection schemes.
